Appendix E | Structural Language Lexicon and Cancerous Meme Index

Author: Wei-Cheng Kong (孔维程)

Year: 2025

License: CC0 1.0 Universal (Public Domain Dedication)

I. Introduction: Language as the Invisible Weapon of Structure

• How language constructs cognition and social order

• “Discourse as control” and the meaning of civilizational immunity

• Memes as information viruses: diffusion vs. resistance

⸻

II. Structural Language Lexicon (Structural Language Lexicon)

This section systematically lists common forms of language that carry
functions of structural domestication/oppression, classified by the
following dimensions:

• Family and kinship structural language

• “I’m doing this for your own good.”

• “You’re making me lose face.”

• “After raising you all these years, is this your attitude?”

• Authority and institutional discourse

• “The organization has already decided.”

• “If you don’t understand, don’t speak carelessly.”

• “Are you opposing the state?”

• Nationalist structural discourse

• “As a Chinese person, you must …”

• “Insulting China”

• “Slandering the motherland”

• Moral-blackmail language

• “Doesn’t your conscience hurt?”

• “Don’t be selfish—think of others.”

• “Do you even deserve to be human?”

Each entry includes: original expression + functional explanation + harm
analysis + civilizational-immunity suggestion (alternative wording).

⸻

III. Cancerous Meme Index

Lists memes (slogans, catchphrases, cultural symbols) with extremely
high structural destructiveness, including:

• “Family and nation are one.”

• “Unconditional obedience.”

• “Great, Glorious, Correct.”

• “Sacrifice the small self to accomplish the great self.”

• “The people need ideological unity.”

• “Collective interests above all.”

• “Controlling public opinion is necessary for national security.”

Each meme includes: diffusion mechanism + emotional bait + how it
suppresses free structures + examples.

⸻

IV. Summary: How to Build Meme Immunity?

• Language training and critical recognition

• Creating healthy memes and alternative expressions

• Beware the civilizational traps of language

⸻

V. Structural Writing System: The Deep Mechanism of Civilizational
Domestication

Appendix E | Structural Language Lexicon and Cancerous Meme Index

Introduction: Language as the Invisible Weapon of Structure

The civilizational structure of human society is not built only by laws
and institutions; a deeper layer of control hides within language.
Language is not merely a vehicle of information; it is the deep carrier
of ideology, power structures, emotional control, and value systems. It
shapes not only what people say, but how they think—and even whether
they can think.

In structural civilizations, language becomes an invisible tool of
domestication: it helps power maintain rule, helps families exert
control, and helps collectives assimilate the individual. In these
systems, the essence of language shifts from communication toward
formatting, command, and legitimation. This is structural language—it
does not serve understanding; it serves order and hierarchy.

Memes—informational particles within civilization—once combined with the
control mechanisms of structural language, transform into cancerous
memes. These look ordinary yet continuously spread emotions such as
repression, submission, collectivism, and fear among individuals—quietly
shaping personality groups that are highly uniform yet lack
self-awareness, thereby constructing a “compliant populace” and a
“domesticated civilization.”

The real danger of language and memes lies in their everydayness—they
often appear as parental care, teachers’ admonitions, patriotic passion,
or moral high ground. Highly deceptive, they corrode the civilizational
immune system over time, weakening individual judgment, autonomy, and
human dignity.

Therefore, the first step to building a civilizational immune system is
to identify these structural languages and cancerous memes. In this
appendix we systematically sort two categories:

1. Structural Language Lexicon: entries repeatedly seen in family,
school, institutions, collectives, nationalism, and moral
discourse—analyzing their control mechanisms and civilizational harms;

2. Cancerous Meme Index: slogans, cultural symbols, and propagating
units with structural destructive power—analyzing their meme structure,
psychological bait, and diffusion mechanisms.

Only by keeping critical awareness toward language can we truly build
civilizational immunity. The question we must ask is no longer “Is this
statement correct?” but “What structural intention lies behind this
statement?” — This marks the awakening of structural civilizational
consciousness.

⸻

II. Structural Language Lexicon (Detailed Entries)

This section lists common “structural language” samples in structural
civilizations. These utterances seem everyday, gentle, even caring, yet
their deep logic embeds control mechanisms of suppression, obedience,
shaming, and stratification.

Each sample includes four elements:

• Original expression (typical wording)

• Functional explanation (its control function in social structure)

• Harm analysis (specific damage to
individual/relationships/civilization)

• Civilizational-immunity suggestion (recommended alternative or
structural response)

Family and Kinship Structural Language

• [Original] “I’m doing this for your own good.”

Function: Parents repackage their will as absolute legitimacy in the
name of “love.”

Harm: Denies individual judgment, blocks children’s willingness to
express, creates emotional debt and self-doubt.

Immunity Suggestion: “I have my viewpoint, but I’m willing to hear
yours.”

• [Original] “You’re making me lose face.”

Function: Binds the other’s behavior to one’s own “face.”

Harm: Uses shame to drive obedience, building a relationship mechanism
where “face” is a control lever.

Immunity Suggestion: “I may feel worried about your decision, but I
respect you.”

• [Original] “After raising you all these years, is this your attitude?”

Function: Establishes a transactional frame: bloodline upbringing ↔
emotional obedience.

Harm: Turns love into debt; past contributions are used to seal off
expression and block equal parent-child dialogue.

Immunity Suggestion: “I gave because I love you, but you still have
freedom of choice.”

Authority and Institutional Discourse

• [Original] “The organization has already decided.”

Function: Uses a vague collective to suppress individual judgment.

Harm: Denies decision rights, blurs responsibility, and creates the
illusion of inescapable fate.

Immunity Suggestion: “Let’s discuss the reasons behind this decision.”

• [Original] “If you don’t understand, don’t speak carelessly.”

Function: Establishes a speech-rights threshold.

Harm: Blocks public discussion, belittles dissent, manufactures “expert
worship” and fear of expression.

Immunity Suggestion: “Your view may be incomplete, but you’re welcome to
explore together.”

• [Original] “Are you opposing the state?”

Function: Equates dissent with betrayal.

Harm: Labels criticism as hostility, creates collective coercion, blocks
rational critique.

Immunity Suggestion: “Loving a country doesn’t mean it cannot be
criticized.”

Nationalist Structural Discourse

• [Original] “As a Chinese person, you must …”

Function: Forces identity to bind behavior.

Harm: Erases individual diversity, manufactures a single
national-identity logic, locks people into “role-obedience.”

Immunity Suggestion: “Everyone can freely interpret their own identity.”

• [Original] “Insulting China.”

Function: Elevates criticism into racial offense.

Harm: Abolishes space for rational critique, manufactures moral
intimidation and social mobbing.

Immunity Suggestion: “Expressing dissent is participation, not insult.”

• [Original] “Slandering the motherland.”

Function: Attributes hostile motive to criticism.

Harm: Twists others’ motives, triggers collective attacks, suppresses
public expression.

Immunity Suggestion: “Raising problems is aimed at improvement.”

Moral-Blackmail Language

• [Original] “Doesn’t your conscience hurt?”

Function: Induces self-shame to force moral obedience.

Harm: Weakens boundaries, manufactures the self-eroding structure of
“living for others.”

Immunity Suggestion: “Let’s discuss your decision rationally.”

• [Original] “Don’t be selfish—think of others.”

Function: Denies individual rights, exalts collective interests.

Harm: Glorifies sacrifice and denies the self, forming the structural
domestication that “sacrifice = virtue.”

Immunity Suggestion: “Balancing self and others matters.”

• [Original] “Do you even deserve to be human?”

Function: Totally denies personal dignity and value.

Harm: Imposes humiliating verbal violence, inducing self-negation and
social withdrawal.

Immunity Suggestion: “We’re discussing behavior, not your personhood.”

⸻

Appendix E-3 | Cancerous Meme Index

In authoritarian civilizations or highly structured oppressive
societies, memes are not merely cultural symbols but tools of structural
control. Through emotional inducement and institutional cooperation,
such language and cultural slogans achieve deep colonization of
individual thinking and social behavior. Below are typical
high-destructiveness “cancerous memes” and their mechanisms:

1. “Family and nation are one.”

• Diffusion mechanism: Reinforced via education systems, TV dramas, and
mainstream media; textbooks blur “family” and “nation,” indoctrinating
loyalty.

• Emotional bait: Leverages family affection (e.g., “mother,”
“motherland”) to create the link “betraying the nation = betraying
parents.”

• How it suppresses free structures: Treats the state as an extension of
the family’s emotional body, weakening civic rights consciousness and
narrowing institutional debate space; strengthens unconditional
obedience.

• Examples:

• College-entrance exam prompts guide students from “grand family-nation
righteousness,” disciplining thought frames.

• Critics of policy on social media are labeled “ungrateful.”

2. “Unconditional obedience.”

• Diffusion mechanism: Carried by military training, school slogans, and
social hierarchy; “obey orders” is the cornerstone of collective order.

• Emotional bait: Packaged with positive terms such as “discipline,”
“responsibility,” and “mission,” generating pride in self-repression.

• Suppression mode: Frames critical thinking as dangerous, uproots doubt
and democratic discussion, forming an atmosphere of obedience to
superiors.

• Examples:

• School management praises “obedience is a virtue,” suppressing
questioning.

• Companies emphasize “obey leadership arrangements,” rejecting
creativity and dissent.

3. “Great, Glorious, Correct.”

• Diffusion mechanism: Propaganda systems mythologize a party/leader as
“always right” and “morally supreme.”

• Emotional bait: Fosters security and worship, making critique feel
like a personal existential threat.

• Suppression mode: Creates “power that cannot be criticized,” eroding
error-correction and genuine dialogue.

• Examples:

• State media lauds “great achievements” and “omnipotent leadership,”
forbidding public discussion of failure or accountability.

• Social platforms delete content critical of the system and ban users.

4. “Sacrifice the small self to accomplish the great self.”

• Diffusion mechanism: From primary school to the military, instills
“collective first,” framing personal sacrifice as noble.

• Emotional bait: Uses “martyr spirit” and “nameless heroes” to spur
voluntary acceptance of repression and deprivation.

• Suppression mode: Prevents individuals from claiming rights, obstructs
civic consciousness, preserves structural injustice.

• Examples:

• Medical workers during epidemics encouraged to “devote,” with basic
rights/compensation ignored.

• Workers accept long overtime “for national development.”

5. “The people need ideological unity.”

• Diffusion mechanism: Through opinion rectification, unified textbooks,
and cyberspace governance to push “uniform thought.”

• Emotional bait: Creates a climate where “dissent = threat,” framing
pluralism as “splitting the nation.”

• Suppression mode: Cuts off the path of intellectual diversity,
destroys the basis for social deliberation, and reinforces a single
ideology.

• Examples:

• Critical curriculums canceled; non-mainstream views labeled “wrong
guidance.”

• Under “clean-up” campaigns, the space for expression keeps shrinking.

6. “Collective interests above all.”

• Diffusion mechanism: Institutional designs prioritize the vague notion
of “collective interests,” sacrificing individual rights.

• Emotional bait: Praises “sacrifice is glorious,” stirring nationalism
or group identity to suppress individual resistance.

• Suppression mode: Uses “collective morality” to domesticate individual
will, granting legitimacy to power structures.

• Examples:

• In urban-village demolitions, individual protesters labeled “obstacles
to development.”

• During public-health campaigns, personal freedom and health choices
are forced to yield to “collective goals.”

7. “Controlling public opinion is necessary for national security.”

• Diffusion mechanism: Uses “national security” as pretext to legitimate
expanded online monitoring and opinion guidance.

• Emotional bait: Brands “free expression” as “incitement” or “foreign
forces,” crafting a consensus that “expression = danger.”

• Suppression mode: Strips freedom of speech/press and public rights to
criticize, forming an information black box.

• Examples:

• “Cybersecurity” provisions used to target whistle-blowers and rights
defenders.

• Uniform media narratives; near-zero media independence.

⸻

IV. Summary: How to Build Meme Immunity?

In societies domesticated by language and oppressed by structure,
thought, expression, and behavior are easily manipulated by memes.
Building a meme-immunity system is a key step in civilizational
self-rescue. Three core strategies:

1) Language training and critical recognition

• Goal: Help individuals realize “language is never neutral.” Every
sentence can carry power structures, cultural pathogens, or
psychological control.

• Methods:

• Learn to identify structural language and “emotional blackmail,” e.g.,
“I’m doing this for your good,” “Do you even deserve …”

• Train a “pause” mechanism: on hearing such phrases, don’t react—ask
the intent and structure behind them.

• Promote a Structural Language Recognition Sheet as a social literacy
tool.

• Practice: When you hear “You’re not fitting in,” ask—who defines
“fitting in”? Whose power does this requirement serve?

2) Create healthy memes and alternative expressions

• Goal: Not only to critique old language, but to actively build new
civilizational expressions and positive bonds.

• Methods:

• Replace oppressive language with open, respectful, equal expressions:

• Replace “Be obedient” with “Let’s negotiate.”

• Replace “For your own good” with “I have a suggestion, but you
decide.”

• Replace “Sacrifice the self” with “Voluntary choice and equal value.”

• Promote a Free Language Toolkit to help families, educators, and
organizers shift linguistic styles.

• Note: Memes are re-makeable. We can craft new social consensuses like
“ignite creativity,” “respect difference,” and “boundaries of love.”

3) Beware the civilizational traps of language

• Goal: Reveal that language is not just a tool of expression, but an
invisible weapon of civilizational structure.

• Methods:

• Include language-structure analysis in education.

• Periodically “detox” political slogans, media headlines, and
instructional language.

• Build a civilizational language map: trace historical evolution and
social outcomes to understand latent risks.

• Reminder: The scariest trap of a civilization is not brute force but
those words that sound gentle, reasonable, and uplifting—words that
shape self-perception and define the boundaries of thought.

⸻

V. Structural Writing System: The Deep Mechanism of Domestication

1) The Structural Oppression of Chinese Characters

Chinese characters are not merely a recording tool; they are a closed,
non-phonemic, culturally self-reinforcing, highly domesticated writing
system with the following structural features:

  ----------------------- ------------------------ -----------------------
  Feature                 Explanation              Civilizational Impact

  Non-phonetic structure  Each character must be   Blocks ordinary
                          memorized; coining new   people’s capacity for
                          words is hard            language creation and
                                                   thought construction

  Graphic/totemic logic   Each character acts like Concentrates linguistic
                          a “totem,” conferring    power in
                          authority                writers/interpreters
                                                   (e.g., “unifying the
                                                   script”)

  Lack of grammatical     Hard to modularize       Leads to stagnation,
  innovation              abstract ideas           weakens philosophical
                                                   abstraction, limits
                                                   structural thinking

  Weak emotional          Semantics without        Restricts emotional
  expressivity            sound—poor at nuanced    expression; reinforces
                          emotion                  a repressive culture

  Mystification &         “Pictograph/intuition”   Reinforces the belief
  domestication           induces reverence        “writing = power” and
                                                   “writing = order”
  ----------------------- ------------------------ -----------------------

Summary text:

We must face this: the coding of a civilization determines its fate.
Just as programs shape behavioral systems, Chinese characters—this
cultural code—are quietly constructing a mute society. To rebuild human
civilization, we must rewrite the foundations of language.

Examples:

• 孝 (filial piety): “old” above “child” → root meaning: the child obeys
the elder.

• 安 (peace): “roof” + “woman” → “a woman at home equals peace.”

This writing system engraves ethical structure into the script itself;
from the moment literacy begins, domestication begins.

⸻

2) Language as Order: Structural Oppression Mechanisms in Chinese

• Subject-erasing mechanism:

Chinese often uses passives and subject-less sentences, blurring
responsibility.

• “Problems need to be solved.” → Whose problems? Who solves them?

• “It’s been decided from above.” → Who is “above”? Why authority?

Result: Creates the illusion that power is naturally given; individuals
lose accountability and questioning consciousness.

• Imperative-first structure:

Chinese habitually starts with imperatives, e.g.:

• “You should …”

• “Hurry up …”

• “Do not …”

Result: Reinforces “obedience-first” thinking; advisory/negotiated
language is scarce and weak.

⸻

3) Binding of Writing System and Ideology

Chinese script has long been bound to political power:

• Han: Confucian script canonized as state orthodoxy.

• Qing: Tens of thousands punished for verses deemed to “ridicule
emperors” (literary inquisitions).

• Maoist era: Character simplification as political re-engineering
(e.g., 斗/批/改—struggle/criticize/reform).

• Contemporary: Sensitive-word systems extend into algorithms and
platform governance—control embedded at the language input port.

🔒 The deepest civilizational infection is not what you say, but that
you can only say it within these characters.

⸻

Civilizational Immunity Proposal: Rebuild Freedom of Writing

Action Plan Table

  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  Countermeasure                      Suggested Action

  Language deconstruction training    Offer courses to critique language
                                      structures and expose 'power in
                                      words.'

  Introduce modular writing tools     Teach phonetic/alphabetic systems
                                      (e.g., English, international
                                      auxiliary languages) to boost
                                      creativity.

  Protect expressive experimentation  Encourage multiple styles, layered
                                      semantics, and multilingual
                                      expression.

  De-sacralize the script system      Chinese script is not sacred—allow
                                      critique, reform, and exit.

  Promote free civilizational writing Support individuals to
                                      invent/deconstruct/remix languages;
                                      break structural shackles.
  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------

Conclusion

Language is civilization. Language is structure.

When we dismantle old language and rebuild new expressions, the true
reconstruction of civilization begins.

From today, practice saying—

• “I respect you, but I do not accept your control.”

• “I feel your emotion, but I reserve my judgment.”

• “I love you, and I have boundaries.”

⸻

🌍 Civilization Corpus · 文明全集

Author: Wei-Cheng Kong (WK 孔维程)

License: CC0 1.0 Universal (Public Domain Dedication)

Permanent Mirrors

• GitHub Pages (Master Entry):

https://wk-26.github.io/Civilization-Axioms-and-Immune-System-/

• GitHub Repository:

https://github.com/wk-26/Civilization-Axioms-and-Immune-System-

• Internet Archive:

https://archive.org/details/a-new-civilization-for-humanity-cc-0

• Zenodo (DOI, all versions):

https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16980277

Final Principle

Any existence that refuses to recognize the immune principle

walks toward cancer and self-destruction.

任何拒绝免疫原理的存在，必然走向癌化与自毁。
